https://uncch.hosted.panopto.com/Panopto/Pages/Viewer.aspx?id=5837500b-e827-4e3d-a95d-b0430110454e

Welcome to COMP 421 databases and files. In this class, you'll be learning databases,
file storage, system structures and in their design.

We will be using the 7th edition of Silberschatz "Database System Concepts".
This is a new book for this class and so much of the class will be different than previous semesters.
There is a Reading list button on the home page.
SHOW THE HOME PAGE -> READING LIST
Please refer to this as we will be skipping around the book somewhat.
The first midterm will cover PART ONE of the book.
The second midterm will be PART FIVE of the book.
The final exam parts of PART TWO and PART THREE.
Of course all midterms and exams are cumulative!

I do expect you to read the chapters BEFORE we cover them in class.
So you'll want to use the agenda on the home page to know what's coming up.
SHOW THE HOME PAGE
The agenda should be considered tentative as this is the first time using this book.
But you can be assured that the agenda up to one week out is up to date.

Along with the agenda, the grades page will let you know what work is outstanding.
For worksheets, the due date is at the top of the worksheets,
but the homework due dates are on the home page.

Did you read the syllabus? 
There is an Easter egg.  Did you find it?

Another change for this semester is "subsequent submissions" which is discussed on the syllabus.
Essentially, for midterms, homeworks and worksheets not due in-class, the work can be submitted multiple times.
(The final exam can only be submitted once.)

But be forewarned that each subsequent submission is weighted less than all previous submissions.
Also, you must wait for the grader to run to get your results before you can resubmit.
(The grader runs hourly)
There is a limit of 10 submissions per worksheet, homework, or midterm.

SHOW THE GRADES PAGE
So let's look at the grade page.
You will be referring to this a lot as I do not use Canvas nor Sakai.
The top legend has your weighted scores for your worksheets, homeworks, games, etc.

Then each worksheet
As 

We will be doing homeworks in Python, which has been the process for the last few years.
The programs are going to be very small and the syllabus has a recommendation for downloading Python and Jupyter notebooks.
The syllabus has a demo assignment that you can use to become familar with Python and Jupyter.
But hopefully learning Python will be very trivial for you.


Also, on the classes before the midterm we will be doing SQL gamification.
Think of it as a cross between Jeopardy and escape rooms.
The details of the games will be discussed and ironed out in the first two classes.
But hopefully this will be fun and educational.

So a little bit about myself, my name is John Majikes.
I've spent about 35 years in industry and worked for large corporations and startups.
I've been responsible for hundreds of millions of dollars of annual revenue.
And I've had 100+ developers reporting to me and I'd be responsible for tens of thousands of lines of code.

Late in my career, I decided to go back and get my Ph.D. and now I have my dream job.

So stop by my office sometime, introduce yourself.
Having been in industry for awhile, I can do mock interviews if you want to schedule one.
But come by the office and we'll talk about databases or whatever.
But welcome to databases!
